raccoons have been around for nearly two
and a half million years but the first
opportunists appeared much earlier than
that
[Music]
being able to eat pretty well anything
was by no means the basic condition of
mammals the very first of them
contemporaries of the dinosaurs small
insignificant creatures had such tiny
teeth they probably ate little but
insects but specialist omnivores did
eventually appear among the one lived
here in South Dakota though then of
course the climate and the vegetation
was very different
it's called Dinah highest and some
experts have likened it to a kind of
killer warthog this animal was as big as
a rhino it had a large hairy crest
running down its spine a long snout and
a formidable set of teeth Dinah highest
I doubt about 20 million years ago but
its teeth can tell us what it ate at the
back it had massive flat molars that
could grind up almost any kind of
vegetation but it wasn't a specialized
vegetarian because the teeth at the
front didn't have those sharp chisel
like teeth that an antelope has neither
was it a specialized meat-eater because
the teeth in its middle jaw are not at
the slicing sharp dagger like teeth that
a lion has nonetheless these are pretty
formidable so are the big tusks at the
front in fact what you have here is a
generalized toolkit that enabled the
animal to deal with almost anything
dinah Hayase maybe extinct but teeth
like these are typical of all living
omnivores - never